Hello, my name is Ubaldo Acosta and welcome again.
In this first lesson we will study an introduction
of Java technology. We'll see what is the
Java language and why it is important to master
this technology nowadays.
One of the main reasons why becoming a Java
expert is that there is an incredible demand
for well-trained professionals in Java technology,
but few people are prepared to face these
challenges, so it is the best time for you
to take advantage and become an specialist
once and for all.
Throughout this lesson we will study, among
other topics, the different versions of Java,
and the evolution of this technology until
this day.
Also, we will study the most important characteristics
of Java and the important reasons why Java
is considered the number one language in the
world today.
So, if you're ready, let’s start with this fabulous
journey in learning the most popular programming
language in the world, Java.
Introduction to Java Tecnology.
Java is more than a programming language,
it is a very complete technology and considered
as the number one option for many of the enterprise
developments today.
But let's start with the basic elements, so
in these lessons we will study Java as a programming
language developed by Sun Microsystems.
I would like to tell you that although we
are going to see some historical points, it
is not our intention to make notes of obvious
things that can be found on the internet,
but only with the intention of putting them
in context, and have a general picture of
what we are going to learn.
Java was born in the early 90s, created by
James Gosling, with the aim of creating a
programming language to be used in the new
generation of smart devices.
They tried to use C++ and extend it, however
this language was complicated and James Gosling
decided to create a new language called OAK,
later changed the name to Java (the legend
says that they decided to choose the name Java
due to the coffee they used to drink,
Java it's a type of coffee from Asia).
Whatever may have been the origin of the name,
Java is today a name that everyone who uses
a computer is aware of, either by its Java
Virtual Machine, or some Java plug-in, and
this is because many applications installed
on our computer use Java as a programming
language.
The success of Java was the possibility of
installing a component, known as Applet, in
a Web browser, and with the Internet boom
it was possible to extend this concept to
any Web page and start running Java applications
anywhere in the world.
Over the years, the success of Java, not only
in the internet but in the creation of enterprise
systems, made Oracle to put his eyes on this
technology, and finally in 2009 was acquired
by this mega software company.
It has been several years since Oracle's acquisition
of Java, and fortunately, the evolution of
language, tools and support from large companies,
as well as the community of Java programmers
(counted by millions around the world), continues
to make Java the number one language worldwide
for the creation of general-purpose software.
So much so that Google based the Android operating
system on the Java language, creating an extension
of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) known as Dalvik.
For all the above, the support for Java technology
is not only still growing, but it’s back
in fashion thanks to the new versions, large
companies and their decision to continue creating
software based on this programming language,
as well as the incredible community of Java
programmers that remains faithful and adding
new followers day by day worldwide.